five now we're working with division
remember that in order to divide what I
need is to multiply the divisor and the
dividend by the conjugate of the divisor
okay so i'm looking here at four plus 2i
its conjugate its complex conjugate is
4-2 I so i need to multiply this
numerator and denominator by 4 minus 2i
okay in the numerator I'm going to go
ahead and do my foil first gives me two
times four which is eight outer terms
this is 2 times negative 2i that is
negative 4i inner terms negative 3i
times 4 is negative 12 I last terms
negative 3i times negative 2i is plus 6i
squared now in the denominator I can act
I could use foil and multiply it out or
I could remember that if i multiply
complex conjugates a plus bi times a
minus bi what I'm going to end up with
is a squared plus B squared now looking
at four plus two I hear a equals 4 and B
equals two so let me just take that
shortcut and say that I then have a
squared which is 4 so 4 squared plus B
squared which is 2 squared okay now
simplifying the numerator a bit further
gives me 8 negative 4i minus 12i is
negative 16 I plus 6i squared in the
denominator 4 squared is 16 + 2 squared
is 4
okay recall that i squared is negative 1
so i'm going to substitute negative 1
here
the denominator I've just got 16 plus 4
is 20 okay so this gives me 8-16 I this
is negative 6 over 20 I can simplify a
bit more because 8-6 is too this is 2-16
I over 20 is my solution okay so in
order to simplify this I took the
conjugate of the denominator which is 4
minus 2i and i multiplied both divisor
and the dividend by the numerous by the
this conjugate this complex conjugate in
the denominator it was easy because I
just said okay that's this conjugate
multiplying these conjugates gives me a
squared plus B squared so that's 4
squared is 16 + 2 squared is 4 to get 20
in the denominator i used foil i
multiplied these out just as I normally
would to get this I combined like terms
to get 8-16 I plus 6i squared and then I
said okay i squared is negative 1
allowing me to simplify this into
negative 6 and combining 8-6 to get 2-16
I over 20 okay that concludes this
session of educator com introducing
complex numbers and imaginary numbers